It's little Joe the Wrangler, he'll wrangle never more His days with the remover they are o'er Was a year ago last April that he joined the outfit here A little Texas strayin' all alone It was late in the evening when he rode up to our herd On a little Texas pony called Shaw
With his brogane shoes and overall the tougher looking kid you never in your life before had saw.
His saddle was a Texas cack made many years ago with an old case where on one foot loosely swung.
And his hot row was a cotton sack, a harder looking kid.
And the canteen from the saddle horn was swung.
He said he'd had to leave his home, his pa had married twice, and his new maw whipped him every day or two.
So he saddled up old Cho one night and lit a shuck this way, and he's now trying to battle his own canoe.
Said if we would give him work he'd do the best he could, though he didn't know straight up about a cow.
So the boss, he cut him out a mound and kindly put him on, cause he sort of liked that little kid somehow.
Learn him to wrangle horses and try to hold him all, and to get them in by daybreak if he could.
To follow the chuck wagon, to always hit the team, to help the cosy nettle Russell Wood.
We had driven to the Pecos,
The weather being fine, we had camped on the south side in a bend.
When the northern comments blowin', we had doubled up our guard, for it taken all of us to hold him in.
Little Joe the Wrangler was called out with the rest, though the kid had scarcely reached a herd.
When the cattle they stampeded like a hill some long they fled and we were all a-riding for the lead.
Between the streaks of lightning the horse we could see ahead was little Joe the Wrangler in the lead.
He was riding old blue rocket with a slicker o'er his head trying to check those cattle in their speed.
at last we got them milling and kind of quieted down and the extra guard back to the camp did go but there was one a missing and we knew it at a glance